About Dataset:

This case is about a bank (Thera Bank) which has a growing customer base. Majority of these customers are liability customers (depositors) with varying size of deposits. The number of customers who are also borrowers (asset customers) is quite small, and the bank is interested in expanding this base rapidly to bring in more loan business and in the process, earn more through the interest on loans. In particular, the management wants to explore ways of converting its liability customers to personal loan customers (while retaining them as depositors). A campaign that the bank ran last year for liability customers showed a healthy conversion rate of over 9% success. This has encouraged the retail marketing department to devise campaigns to better target marketing to increase the success ratio with a minimal budget.

The department wants to build a model that will help them identify the potential customers who have a higher probability of purchasing the loan. This will increase the success ratio while at the same time reduce the cost of the campaign.

Content
Column descriptions
ID Customer ID
Age Customer's age in completed years
Experience #years of professional experience
Income Annual income of the customer ($000)
ZIPCode Home Address ZIP code.
Family Family size of the customer
CCAvg Avg. spending on credit cards per month ($000)
Education Education Level. 1: Undergrad; 2: Graduate; 3: Advanced/Professional
Mortgage Value of house mortgage if any. ($000)
Personal Loan Did this customer accept the personal loan offered in the last campaign?
Securities Account Does the customer have a securities account with the bank?
CD Account Does the customer have a certificate of deposit (CD) account with the bank?
Online Does the customer use internet banking facilities?
CreditCard Does the customer uses a credit card issued by UniversalBank?


Inspiration
Study the data distribution in each attribute, share your findings. Use a classification model to predict the likelihood of a liability customer buying personal loans.

The data set includes 5000 observations with fourteen variables divided into four different measurement categories. The binary category has five variables, including the target variable personal loan, also securities account, CD account, online banking and credit card. The interval category contains five variables: age, experience, income, CC avg and mortgage. The ordinal category includes the variables family and education. The last category is nominal with ID and Zip code. The variable ID does not add any interesting information e.g. individual association between a person (indicated by ID) and loan does not provide any general conclusion for future potential loan customers. Therefore, it will be neglected in the examination.